# TMBd movie Data Analysis-projects

A project on TMBd movie Data Analysis

This data set contains information about 10,000 movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb), including user ratings and revenues. Using this data, I will be analyzing the properties associated with the movies listed in the data set and analyzing questions that provide answers to; the correlation between the movies' revenue and budget, some kinds of properties associated with movies that have high revenue, directors that made the highest revenue over time, the most expensive movie that was produced, highest revenue generated from the movies and in what year, also, top movies that gave people high satisfaction. The data set was cleaned up thoroughly for this analysis to ensure an unbiased result, from checking of the data's general properties to fixing null, missing, and duplicate values. Generally, there seems to be a positive correlation between most attributes used in this analysis with the revenue. Most of the questions answered in the analysis give feedback on the effect of spending more on a movie production, to generate more revenue. The results show that people prefer movies with a high budget. People rate movies with a high budget. In real-life situations and applications, this analysis can be shown to investors, stakeholders, or directors to make decisions and it shows an increase in revenue when much more money is spent on the movie production (increased budget). Movie popularity, budget, and vote count have a high positive correlation with revenue generated. The length of a movie does no necessarily generate more revenue, as there is a very weak correlation between the runtime of movies and revenue generated. One limitation of exploring this dataset is that rows with missing values had to be dropped because the data types are strings and not integers where one could easily find the mean of the column to fill it up, regardless, it was still useful, as the missing values were dropped.
